Will You Take My Hand?   
Stardate: 2257  
Original Airdate: 11 Feb 2018  


KLINGON [OC]: We have acquired the target.   
(Our viewpoint moves in from the Klingon fleet past Jupiter and Mars to a blue planet with a single large moon, a spacedock and plenty of small satellites.) 

[Bridge]

BURNHAM [OC]: On the eve of battle, on a cold and windless night, an old general turned to a young soldier. "Tomorrow," said the master, "you will know fear." The young soldier, who had not yet experienced the agony of war, looked at the general with quizzical eyes. "How will I know fear if I do not know what it looks like?" The general replied, "You will know fear because it speaks very fast and it speaks very loud."   
GEORGIOU: Status, helm?   
DETMER: Bearing 94 mark 21, 12 light-years from Klingon homeworld   
GEORGIOU: Do not show respect by referring to that green dot as homeworld. Klingons are animals, and they don't have homes. Call it Qo'noS, or the enemy planet. Ops?   
OWOSEKUN: Shields holding at 100%. Our scans show   
GEORGIOU: I have little interest in what we're scanning. I care what's scanning us. Communications?   
BRYCE: Discovery is running dark, Captain.   
GEORGIOU: My favorite way to run.   
BURNHAM [OC]: If that is how fear acts, recognizing it is easy. But as the young soldier considered the general's advice, she asked the question facing us now. "Once I know fear, how do I defeat it?"   
SARU: Specialist, I would appreciate your help with a glitch in the optical-data network.   
(Burnham joins Saru.)   
SARU: (sotto) She does not embody Federation ideals, and we're supposed to follow her orders?   
BURNHAM: (sotto) The Federation put her here.   
GEORGIOU: Burnham. I did not give you permission to leave your station.   
(Burnham goes back across the bridge.)   
GEORGIOU: What's wrong? Are you scared, Number One? Where I'm from, there's a saying. Scared Kelpien makes for tough Kelpien. Have you gotten tough since we served together on the Shenzhou, Mister Saru?   
SARU: Affirmative, Captain. Very tough. So much so that many find me simply unpalatable.   
GEORGIOU: Hmm. I don't know about that.   
BURNHAM: Where are you from, Captain? That saying about Kelpiens is so apt, having experienced it firsthand. I wonder where it originated.   
GEORGIOU: Don't be silly, Michael. You know I grew up in Malaysia.   
BURNHAM: But where, exactly? I went there with you once, but I can't remember the name.   
GEORGIOU: Pulau Langkawi.   
BURNHAM: Right. Those beautiful beaches.   
GEORGIOU: Indeed. Let's take a walk. 

[Corridor]

GEORGIOU: Try to expose me again and I'll lock you in the brig.   
BURNHAM: If Starfleet recruited a Terran to lead the mission, they are desperate.   
GEORGIOU: The Federation had a problem. I offered them a solution in exchange for my freedom. And what's so bad about desperation? You were desperate when you begged me to reveal how my Empire beat the Klingons. You instigate valiantly, then second-guess. I've now read about your actions on the eve of the war. You know your problem? No follow-through. You should have killed my counterpart in her Ready room, attacked the Klingons, and then been a hero.   
BURNHAM: (grabbing Georgiou's arm) Tell me the real plan.   
GEORGIOU: Never do that again. Your Federation is losing. (Burnham lets go) The Klingon armada is already headed toward your homeworld. My knowledge is giving you a fighting chance. Are you with me or against me?   
BURNHAM: With you, Captain. 

[Brig]

L'RELL: You? How? Our Lord pierced your heart. House T'Kuvma feasted on your flesh.   
GEORGIOU: You have the wrong Philippa Georgiou.   
L'RELL: Either way, I can tell you require seasoning.   
(Georgiou activates a hologram of Qo'noS.)   
L'RELL: My home.   
GEORGIOU: There are seven chimneys on Qo'noS which lead into a dormant volcano system. Of these, which is the best for a landing party to reach on foot?   
L'RELL: I will tell you nothing. This war ends when we crush you, united under T'Kuvma's call.   
BURNHAM: This war may rage on, but your war, your great dream of Klingon unification? It's already lost.   
L'RELL: (Klingonaase) Go to hell, very small human.   
GEORGIOU: You both talk too much.   
(Georgiou activates L'Rell's restraints and lowers the forcefield so she can attack her.)   
BURNHAM: No!   
GEORGIOU: Reactivate containment field. Control to my voice. (hits L'Rell) Tell me where my party should land.   
(More punches and kicks) Where?   
L'RELL: You have already lost.   
BURNHAM: Enough! There's another way. 

[Tyler's quarters]

GEORGIOU: Admiral Cornwell briefed me on this half-breed. I can see, from a strategic standpoint, its value as a weapon, but as it's Klingon, it has been neutered. It is benign, useless to them, yet tarnished to the Federation, so what good is it to either side?   
BURNHAM: He has access to the Klingon's memories.   
GEORGIOU: All I can see is a who-knows-what playing with a string.   
TYLER: This is a bowline, it doesn't run. It doesn't slip. It's the first thing I learned as a kid that made me me. It ties me to my past, who I am. Voq's life, his memories, they're here too. Always with me. I'm willing to share his knowledge. Not for you, but for Starfleet. Do you want my help or not?   
GEORGIOU: What do you know about the surface of Qo'noS? 

[Conference room]

BURNHAM: The plan is to use a drone with rock-penetrating surveillance systems to map the surface and identify military targets, in preparation for a future full-scale attack. Unfortunately, the cave Discovery will hide in isn't connected to the planet's dormant volcanoes. In order for the mapping drone to work, it has to be introduced into one of these. As you're aware, information regarding Qo'noS is virtually non-existent. We're depending on black market surveys acquired by the Vulcans over a century ago.   
TYLER: This chimney's in the High Council chamber of the First City. All high-bred arrogance, that place. This one's now flooded by the River Skral. Here, this is your best bet. The safest access point for the drone. Centuries ago, when the caldera was active, these vents were shrines. Live sacrifices were thrown in to honour Molor. When Kahless defeated Molor, those temples were abandoned, built over. The ones that remained were shielded to make them impossible to find with sensors. You'll have to transport down there and do the legwork yourself.   
BURNHAM: What's there now?   
TYLER: The land was given to the Orions, who built an embassy outpost over the ruins.   
GEORGIOU: In my world, the Orions are delinquents, pirates, slave traders.   
BURNHAM: It's not much different in ours.   
GEORGIOU: Excellent. He will accompany us and help us sniff out what we're after. Will that be a problem?   
BURNHAM: No.   
TYLER: No. Captain.   
GEORGIOU: I looked over the crew manifest. There's somebody else I want with us. Enter. (door opens) I am so pleased to see you, Tilly.   
TILLY: Thank you. I have heard and read so much about you. Michael can attest, I'm always asking about Captain Georgiou.   
GEORGIOU: Seeing your face reminds me of the great fun the two of us had, subjugating the Betazoids, Wiping out Mintaka III.   
TILLY: Oh, she's not   
TYLER: No.   
TILLY: So she's from   
BURNHAM: Mmm.   
TILLY: You're the Terran Emperor.   
(Tilly makes the salute.)   
BURNHAM: Don't do that.   
GEORGIOU: You look so much like her. Younger, maybe. But all that killing ages a person.   
(she touches Tilly's auburn curls) These are hideous, of course.   
TILLY: I know. What is happening?   
BURNHAM: She requested you, for the landing party.   
TILLY: Oh. But just so you're clear, I am not the same person I was in your universe.   
GEORGIOU: Don't be so sure, Killy. You will have the honour of carrying the mapping drone. Go to quarters. Dress as lowlifes. We need items to trade so as to seem legitimate. Gabriel must have found something interesting lying around in this universe. 

[Corridor]

TYLER: You gonna be okay down there?   
BURNHAM: You don't need to worry about me. 

[Bridge]

SARU: Ready, Lieutenant Stamets?   
STAMETS [in spore cell]: First an alternate universe, now a Klingon cave on a hundred-year-old map. Ready as can be, Mister Saru.   
SARU: Black alert. To Qo'noS, please.   
AIRIAM: Aye, Captain.   
COMPUTER: Black alert. Black alert.   
(Discovery jumps into a cavern.)   
OWOSEKUN: Shields holding.   
DETMER: Stabiliser beams are compensating for the planet's gravitational pull.   
STAMETS [in spore cell]: Am I good or what?   
SARU: We are aboard and steady. 

[Transporter room]

SARU [OC]: You are clear to transport.   
GEORGIOU: Energise. 

[Street]

TILLY: Not a lot of humans around here.   
GEORGIOU: Except the dregs from our race.   
TYLER: Exactly. The Orions here aren't likely to trust us or give up any information.   
(Pasts stalls selling various types of food, and entrances to places of ahem physical pleasures.)   
ORION WOMAN: Keep walking, Federation. No one wants you here.   
GEORGIOU: Tilly.   
TILLY: (gun to head) Insult her again, and your nose is gonna be able to sniff the back of your head.   
GEORGIOU: We're here to make a deal. Show her the stash. Tell her what she's looking at.   
TILLY: Nausicaan disruptor pistols. Latest spec. Paralithium cell with beam and a pulse firing mode. Polyalloy casings, making it all but invisible to security screeners.   
GEORGIOU: 2,000 darseks.   
ORION WOMAN: Let's see what else you got.   
TILLY: All this arms dealing has my appetite up. Anyone else hungry? Anyone? Michael?   
STALLHOLDER: Greetings.   
TILLY: Two, please.   
BURNHAM: What is that?   
TILLY: I have no idea. I'm not actually hungry. I wanted to talk to you.   
BURNHAM: I intuited.   
TILLY: Do you have any idea what she might be up to?   
BURNHAM: No. All we can do is watch her like a hawk, and make sure she stays on mission.   
TILLY: I er, I realise how hard this must be for you, but I got your back.   
BURNHAM: Thank you.   
GEORGIOU: What is that?   
TILLY: Delicious.   
TYLER: It's a space whale.   
TILLY: Gormagander? (food drops from her open mouth)   
GEORGIOU: Enough distractions. We're not here for bread and circuses.   
(Three patrons are thrown out of somewhere.)   
SHAVO: (in Orion) Get out! All of you.   
GEORGIOU: On second thought, the circus is where we'll start. 

[Club]

(Music, exotic dancers of all genders.)   
TILLY: So, what should we   
GEORGIOU: Shh! I knew your whole universe couldn't be boring. (hands a device to Tyler) Use this. We'll be more effective if we split up. Buy information. Whatever gets us to that shrine.   
(Tyler and Burnham leave. A male dancer comes over to Georgiou and Tyler.)   
GEORGIOU: Hmm. How much for a little me time?   
SHAVO: Over there.   
GEORGIOU: Bring your friend.   
TILLY: No, no, that, very generous. I think I'll... I'm just gonna stay out here.   
GEORGIOU: She's not for you. Guard the drone. 

[Gambling den]

TYLER: Maybe these guys can lead us to the shrine.   
BURNHAM: If they'll talk to us.   
TYLER: The game is called t'Sang. It translates to obliterate them.   
BURNHAM: You know how to play?   
TYLER: I think I do. And I think I'm good at it. I mean, Voq was good at it. He was a decent gambler. He felt the numbers always fell his way, as if the universe was making up for his bad luck with everything else.   
BURNHAM: Like what?   
TYLER: He was born with a rare mutation that made his skin translucent white. The others considered him a freak of nature.   
(Dialogue now in Klingonaase.)   
KLINGON: What are you doing here, human? Spying for the Federation?   
TYLER: No, I'm looking to take a few hundred darseks from losers like you. Let's begin your humiliation.   
KLINGON: Do you have cash to play, little boy with a big mouth?   
TYLER: Out of my way.   
CROUPIER: Place your bets.   
TYLER: Croupier.   
CROUPIER: Red. Red.   
TYLER: New player goes first. Two! Two! Victory! Destroy him! Two! Victory! Owned!   
(The Klingons laugh with Tyler.) 

[Club]

(An Orion - who once was the child Balok - inhales some smoke then waves Tilly over.)   
ORION: Join me?   
TILLY: Oh, thank you.   
ORION: Smoke?   
TILLY: Oh, that, that's so sweet. No, thank you. I have, er, I have a very narrow esophagus. It's strange but true, so that's bad for that. I'm not... I'm not trying to be rude   
ORION: Get her out.   
TILLY: You know what? I would love some. Just a little bit.   
ORION: Inhale.   
TILLY: Do you think, do you think I got   
(Tilly passes out.) 

[Tattoo parlour]

TYLER: I got nothing. None of them know about an ancient shrine.   
BURNHAM: You won everyone over quickly.   
TYLER: A human speaking Klingon is amusing to them. Might as well be a dog on waterskis.   
BURNHAM: Is that an old Klingon saying?   
TYLER: No, I... I just made it up. I like to waterski.   
BURNHAM: Yeah, you have a boat. I remember.   
TYLER: You raced out of there pretty quick. You all right?   
BURNHAM: I never told you about my parents. What happened to them.   
TYLER: No. I mean, I've heard things. I never wanted to push.   
BURNHAM: They were stationed at a human-Vulcan science outpost at Doctari Alpha. My mom and dad had planned a family vacation to Mars, but I begged them to stay for three more days so I could witness a nearby star go supernova. Then the Klingons attacked. My dad tried to barricade the kitchen door while my mom hid me in a cabinet. And I couldn't see, but I could hear everything. They killed my dad first. That was quick. They took longer with my mom. And when it was over, they sat down at our table. Ate dinner. Our dinner. And they were talking and laughing. And just now, all that laughter...   
TYLER: How could you not hate them? And me, for what I've become?   
BURNHAM: It would be so much simpler if I could. I look around here and I just I see people living their lives. Maybe it's not normal to us, but in their own way, ordinary. The Emperor was wrong. This is a home. And if we give the Federation targets to attack, it won't ever be the same.   
TYLER: I can see both sides. Literally. The side I've chosen is where you stand, where it's possible to feel compassion and sympathy for your enemy. But I can guarantee no Klingon ever felt that way toward you.   
BURNHAM: You did.   
TYLER: You see that? Pouring an extra drink. Setting it on fire. That's a step specific to the followers of Molor. There's a decent chance they know about that shrine.   
(He goes out to talk to the two Klingons.) 

[Club]

(Georgiou appears satiated.)   
SHAVO: Did you enjoy yourself?   
GEORGIOU: Did you?   
SHAVO: I learned so many new things. We shouldn't charge you.   
SHAVA: But we have to charge you.   
GEORGIOU: Perhaps if you teach me something new, it will be fair trade.   
(She punches Shavo and turns her weapon on Shava.)   
GEORGIOU: Where is the shrine of Molor?   
(Meanwhile, the Orion is trying to cut through the metal fastening the case with the drone in it to Tilly's wrist. She wakes.)   
TILLY: Hey, stop! Hey, stop. Shame on you.   
ORION: You were asleep. I'm Orion.   
TILLY: What did, erh, we inhale? My mouth tastes like sulphur and... and ash.   
ORION: Volcanic vapour, straight from the source.   
TILLY: Yeah, but not really, right? 'Cause all the volcanoes here are extinct.   
ORION: Oh, no. They're alive.   
TILLY: Then how's the drone gonna get down there? The heat will destroy it. Give me that.   
(She takes his thermal knife and opens the case herself.)   
TILLY: Oh, shit. That is not a drone. Tilly to Burnham.   
BURNHAM: Go ahead, Tilly.   
TILLY: First of all, so, I'm very high, er, but you need to listen to me. 

[Tattoo parlour]

TILLY [OC]: There are active volcanoes right beneath us right now 

[Club]

TILLY: And the drone, also, that's not a drone. It's a, it's a like a hydro bomb. We keep them on the Discovery so we can reco   
GEORGIOU: What did you say about a hydro bomb?   
(Georgiou punches Tilly in the face, knocking her out.) 

[Tattoo parlour]

BURNHAM: Tilly? Cadet, respond.   
TYLER: I know where to find the shrine. What's wrong?   
BURNHAM: It's Tilly. 

[Club]

TYLER: A hydro bomb? What kind of damage can it do?   
TILLY: Detonate it into an active volcanic system, it's just... apocalyptic.   
BURNHAM: A phreatic eruption. Water flashes into steam and triggers a massive explosion.   
TILLY: Landmasses directly over the reaction centre will be vaporised.   
BURNHAM: Oh   
TILLY: Ash will fill the atmosphere. Within weeks, Qo'noS will be uninhabitable.   
BURNHAM: This was the plan all along. Burnham to Discovery. 

[Bridge / Club]

SARU: Go ahead, Burnham.   
BURNHAM: Georgiou is about to instigate a catastrophic natural disaster on Qo'noS. She may already be in the shrine. Can you get a transporter lock on her?   
SARU: Affirmative. However, beaming her out is not an option.   
(Georgiou has dropped the bomb down the well.)   
SARU: The shrine's shields make it unsafe for biological transport.   
BURNHAM: What about the bomb? Can you get the bomb?   
SARU: We are too late. The signal's fading. We must contact Starfleet.   
BURNHAM: Saru, I think she's following Starfleet's orders. I need to talk to Admiral Cornwell. 

[Bridge]

(After a simulation of Qo'noS turning into a ball of dust.)   
BURNHAM: Is this how Starfleet wins the war? Genocide?   
CORNWELL [hologram]: You want to do this here? Fine. Terms of atrocity are convenient after the fact. The Klingons are on the verge of wiping out the Federation.   
BURNHAM: Yes. But ask yourself. Why did you put this mission in the hands of a Terran and why the secrecy? It's because you know it's not who we are.   
CORNWELL [hologram]: It very soon will be. We do not have the luxury of principles.   
BURNHAM: That is all we have, Admiral. A year ago I stood alone. I believed that our survival was more important than our principles. I was wrong. Do we need a mutiny today to prove who we are?   
SARU: We are Starfleet.   
(The bridge crew stands in support.)   
CORNWELL [hologram]: What is it you're suggesting? 

[Molor temple]

BURNHAM: Change of plans.   
GEORGIOU: Really? Says who?   
BURNHAM: Deactivate the detonator, Philippa. Your freedom is still granted. Here's the proof.   
GEORGIOU: You talked them out of it, didn't you?   
BURNHAM: Of planetary slaughter? Yes.   
GEORGIOU: Oh, don't be so dramatic. When I did this in my universe, it didn't wipe out the Klingons. A decent number should be able to save themselves. Plus, they'll have an advantage. No Terran ships firing on them as they try to escape.   
BURNHAM: Turn it off.   
GEORGIOU: Has it ever occurred to you that I was doing this for you? By ending the war, I'd set you free from the guilt and pain you carry because of it.   
BURNHAM: Not buying it.   
GEORGIOU: Worth a try.   
BURNHAM: You really are nothing like my Georgiou, are you?   
GEORGIOU: No. And I never have been. She's dead, Michael. There are no second chances.   
BURNHAM: No, I suppose not.   
GEORGIOU: I do like you. Why not join me? The bomb is in position. We have the detonator. Starfleet and Klingon alike will be at our mercy.   
BURNHAM: I had much the same thought. Give it to me.   
(Georgiou aims her weapon at Burnham.)   
BURNHAM: Take your freedom in exchange for the detonator, or try to escape my ship and its crew and be hunted by the Federation for the rest of your days.   
GEORGIOU: You think your Federation scares me?   
BURNHAM: Not particularly. But the only way you're gonna get past me is to kill me. So you'll have to watch me die again. And did I mention being hunted for the rest of your days?   
(Powers down weapon.)   
GEORGIOU: The detonator is coded to my bioprint. Would you like it recoded to yours?   
BURNHAM: Not to mine, no. (into communicator) All clear.   
(Tyler and L'Rell enter.)   
L'RELL: What is this?   
BURNHAM: This is the place the Federation crushed the Klingons. We've planted a bomb in the heart of your homeworld. Qo'noS will be destroyed.   
L'RELL: You bring me here to gloat?   
BURNHAM: No. To offer you an alternative.   
(Georgiou hands over the detonator.)   
BURNHAM: Klingons respond to strength. Use the fate of Qo'noS to bend them to your will. Preserve your civilisation rather than watch it be destroyed.   
L'RELL: But I am no one.   
TYLER: You once told Voq that you didn't want the mantle of leadership.   
(in Klingonaase) I am the Torchbearer. The one who lights the way for the leader. Voq has always believed in you, L'Rell. (English) It's time for you to leave the shadows.   
GEORGIOU: I'll leave you to it, then.   
BURNHAM: Be good, Philippa.   
GEORGIOU: Or you'll come for me?   
BURNHAM: Make sure I don't have to. 

[Street]

TYLER: Isik for your thoughts.   
BURNHAM: I always wanted to find out what one was. I never did.   
TYLER: L'Rell has arranged for a transport to a Makai ship.   
BURNHAM: They're in for a surprise.   
TYLER: It's not the human way to make a message heard, but it's the Klingon way. I'm going with her. It's true, what the Emperor said. I'm no good for either side. I... But maybe I can be good for both. I've never been great at goodbyes.   
BURNHAM: Neither am I. I've had too many of them.   
TYLER: Michael. In spite of everything that happened to you, your capacity to love literally saved my life. I'm gonna miss looking at you.   
BURNHAM: I see you, Ash, in your eyes. Only you.   
(They hug then kiss.)   
TYLER: Thank... thank you.   
(Tyler leaves. Burnham has the bowline knot in her hand. Tyler and L'Rell are beamed away.)   
BURNHAM: Burnham to Discovery. One to transport.   
L'RELL: T'Kuvma knew that the most powerful Empire was a united Empire. Twenty four Houses working as one. He believed the quickest way to bring us together was war with the Federation. But in this fight we have lost our way A new leader is needed to fulfill my Lord's vision. I am that leader.   
(Laughter.)   
L'RELL: In my hand, I hold the fate of the Klingon homeworld. Of the Klingon Empire itself. We are proud. We are honourable. And we will be one again. You will throw down your arms or you will suffer the consequences. The choice is yours. The reunification of our race begins now.   
(The Klingon fleet leaves Earth space.)   
BURNHAM [OC]: Earth, Andor, Tellar, Vulcan. Every planet of the Federation has made the odyssey out of darkness into light. So too have the Klingons. The war is over. There were triumphs. Victories of spirit. Courage beyond reason. But make no mistake. These were bleak times. Times we cannot repeat. Times we cannot forget. 

[Plaza]

(In the rain.)   
AMANDA: Isik for your thoughts.   
BURNHAM: What's an isik, anyway?   
AMANDA: Oh, I don't know. It's something my mother used to say to me.   
BURNHAM: Thank you for coming. I'm glad to see you.   
AMANDA: Is everything okay?   
BURNHAM: When I was growing up, you told me not to forget my humanity. I didn't know what that meant. I didn't how to do it. I didn't even know why I would want to. I get it now. So thank you, for not giving up on me.   
AMANDA: That's what mothers do.   
SAREK: Michael.   
BURNHAM: Father.   
SAREK: What the Federation chose to do on Qo'noS was unprincipled, and I had a part in it.   
BURNHAM: The Klingons made it clear they would fight us to extinction. You were desperate to save us. I know the feeling all too well.   
SAREK: And yet, you were able to find another way. I am not alone in finding your commitment to Starfleet's ideals commendable. I asked if I may give it to you. Your record has been expunged, your pardon by the president of the Federation is official.   
(He pins an insignia onto her uniform.)   
SAREK: Commander Burnham, the Federation is as grateful to you as I am to my daughter. Your mother will stay in Paris for a few days. I will travel with Discovery to Vulcan. You're picking up your new captain there.   
BURNHAM: I'm glad we'll be making that journey together. 

[UFP headquarters]

(Medals have been awarded.)   
BURNHAM: We are no longer on the eve of battle. Even so, I come to ask myself the same question that young soldier asked the general all those years ago. "How do I defeat fear?" The general's answer? The only way to defeat fear is to tell it "no." No, we will not take shortcuts on the path to righteousness. No, we will not break the rules that protect us from our basest instincts. No, we will not allow desperation to destroy moral authority. I am guilty of all these things. Some say that in life, there are no second chances. Experience tells me that this is true. But we can only look forward. We have to be torchbearers, casting the light so we may see our path to lasting peace. We will continue exploring, discovering new worlds, new civilisations. Yes, that is the United Federation of Planets.   
CORNWELL: Today, we honor Ensign Sylvia Tilly. Accepted into Starfleet Command Training Program.   
BURNHAM: Yes. That is Starfleet.   
CORNWELL: Lieutenant Commander Paul Stamets. Medical Officer Hugh Culber.   
BURNHAM: Yes, that is who we are.   
CORNWELL: Commander Saru. First Kelpien to receive the Medal of Honour.   
BURNHAM: And who we will always be.   
(The audience applauds and cheers.) 

[Bridge]

TILLY: Never been to Vulcan before.   
BURNHAM: Well, if there's time, I'll show you around. It's strange that we're not jumping to Vulcan.   
STAMETS: Well, Starfleet has committed to finding a non-human interface. Until that happens, I'm happy to go the old-fashioned way.   
TILLY: Captain on the bridge.   
SARU: Acting Captain. Please take your stations. You may consult with Science Officer Burnham later.   
SAREK: Thank you, Mister Saru, for permitting me this small indulgence. I never tire of seeing home.   
SARU: Of course. Lieutenant Detmer, have we cleared the Sol system?   
DETMER: Yes, Captain.   
SARU: Set course for Vulcan, and engage at maximum warp.   
DETMER: Aye, sir.   
(They jump to warp. An incoming transmission, Federation: Encrypted priority one distress is detected.)   
BRUCE: Incoming transmission.   
SARU: From whom?   
BRYCE: I'm having trouble identifying it. But it's a priority-one distress call.   
SARU: Identify the source, please.   
BRYCE: I'm getting a Federation ID code. It's choppy. Trying to clean it up, sir.   
(NCC-17...)   
SARU: Helm, slow us down.   
DETMER: Dropping us out of warp now, sir.   
SARU: This is Captain Saru of the Federation Starship Discovery. Please identify yourselves.   
BRYCE: Hail's from Captain Pike, sir.   
BURNHAM: It's the USS Enterprise.   
(The two spaceships hang saucer to saucer, and the proper Star Trek theme plays.)   
---  
  
Star Trek ® is copyright of  CBS Studios Inc . Copyright (C) 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.
