Battle at the Binary Stars   
Stardate: 1207.3 / May 11, 2256)  
Original Airdate: 27 Sept 2017  


[Transporter room - 7 Years Earlier]

(The transporter pads are vertical, on the walls.)   
GEORGIOU: Ambassador Sarek, it's good to see you again.   
SAREK: Thank you for receiving us, Captain Georgiou.   
GEORGIOU: The pleasure is ours.   
SAREK: As discussed, this is my ward, - Michael Burnham.   
GEORGIOU: Hello, Michael. Welcome to the USS Shenzhou. And congratulations on your recent commencement.   
BURNHAM: Respect is earned, as is friendliness.   
SAREK: Yet diplomatic niceties must be observed.   
BURNHAM: This is hardly a negotiation.   
GEORGIOU: First contact, then. The only human to attend the Vulcan Learning Centre and Science Academy rejoins her own kind. You can see my analogy, more or less.   
BURNHAM: Less.   
SAREK: I will leave you now. Live long and prosper. (sotto to Burnham) Behave.   
CREWMAN: Energizing. 

[Corridor]

BURNHAM: On Vulcan, lateral vector transporter technology has been discarded due to the massive amount of power it requires.   
GEORGIOU: Starfleet has phased out that design as well. Shenzhou is old, but she gets us where we need to go.   
CREWMAN (Tannoy): Attention, all personnel, stand by to   
GEORGIOU: Is this vessel not up to your standards?   
BURNHAM: I have no standards when it comes to this ship. It was always my intention to join the Vulcan Expeditionary Group.   
GEORGIOU: Sometimes the universe allows for the making of unexpected memories.   
BURNHAM: Emotional platitudes are not what I was hoping for.   
GEORGIOU: Well, you've really been away from humans for a long time.   
CREWWOMAN (Tannoy): Doctor Nambue. 

[Turbolift]

GEORGIOU: I'd say you're too confident for your own good, but I've seen your record.   
BURNHAM: As I have seen yours.   
GEORGIOU: And your confidence is justified.   
BURNHAM: As is yours.   
GEORGIOU: Ready to see your new home? 

[Bridge]

CREWMAN: Captain on the bridge.   
GEORGIOU: Not too shabby, huh?   
BURNHAM: It appears to be functional.   
GEORGIOU: I understand your hesitation, Michael. It's hard leaving Vulcan and everything you've known behind. But I assure you, this can be your new home, if you want it to be.   
BURNHAM: Thank you Captain.   
(Present day)   
GEORGIOU: How many Klingon vessels have entered the system?   
SARU: Tracking. 24, Captain.   
BURNHAM: The Klingon High Council consists of 24 houses. That can't be a coincidence. The number of ships. It suggests that someone is attempting to unify the Empire again, against us.   
GEORGIOU: Commander Burnham, you have endangered your vessel and your shipmates. You have attacked a superior officer. You violated the chain of command. You are relieved of duty. Security, remand her to the brig.   
CREWMAN: Yes, Captain. 

[Klingon ship]

(Three Klingon holograms, to start with, more appearing during the dialogue.)   
KOL: Where is T'Kumva? I heed the sacred call of the Beacon of Kahless and the one who sent it ignores my presence?   
UJILLI: Your leader delays me from my voyage. Why?   
DENNAS: What threat to the Empire spreads across the stars?   
KOL: Bring your leader at once. Do not waste any more of my time.   
T'KUVMA: My presence. My voyage. My time. No one speaks of my duty or my honour.   
KOL: Show respect, T'Kumva. You are nothing. You have not earned a seat on this Council.   
T'KUVMA: And yet I am the one who leads the way to our Empire's resurrection. As a child my destiny was illuminated by the light of Kahless. This ship belonged to my father. Upon his death, it lay until I discovered it and vowed to restore honour to my house.   
YOUNG T'KUVMA [memory]: This is not your playground. You will show respect.   
(He gets beaten up.)   
T'KUVMA: But there is no honour without unity. There is no home for any of us, unless it is shared by all.   
KOL: You speak of unity yet you disgrace this ship with outcasts and vermin.   
VOQ: Look around! This holy vessel soars once again because of my lord. He has even devised a way to hide it behind a cloak of invisibility   
T'KUVMA: My House is open to all, including those discarded by you, Kol. But my House is bonded by a single doctrine. Remain Klingon.   
KOL: We are done listening to this fool.   
DENNAS: The House of D'Ghor will hear more.   
UJILLI: As will House Mokai.   
KOL: One day soon, I will put you back in your place, T'Kuvma. (hologram disappears)   
DENNAS: How do you propose to unite us?   
T'KUVMA: We have become complacent in the time since we last battled the Federation at Donatu V. Our purity is a threat to them. They wish to drag us into the muck where humans, Vulcans, Tellarites and filthy Andorians mix.   
UJILLI: Their ship is but a fleck. What threat does one ship pose?   
T'KUVMA: Great leaders, everything I say will come to pass. Look to the stars. Our destiny has arrived.   
(Starfleet ships are dropping out of warp to face them.) 

[Bridge]

CONNOR: Starships Clarke, Shran, T'Plana-Hath, Kerala, Sioux, Ride, Earhart, Dana, Edison, Yeager dropped out of warp   
GEORGIOU: Where is the admiral?   
SARU: The Europa is still 800 AUs out.   
CONNOR: Captain, the Klingons are no longer jamming ship communications.   
GEORGIOU: Januzzi, open a channel.   
JANUZZI: Aye, Captain.   
GEORGIOU: Unidentified Klingon vessel, this is Captain Philippa Georgiou of the USS Shenzhou. 

[Klingon ship]

GEORGIOU [hologram]: We are on the outermost borders of Federation space, but make no mistake, you and your artefact are in our territory. We regret the situation has resulted in the death of your warrior. We offer you two choices. Leave immediately or open a dialogue with us. Hopefully, it is the latter, so that we can reengage with the Klingon Empire and prove to you that now, as always   
T'KUVMA: Here it comes. Their lie.   
GEORGIOU [hologram]: We come in peace. (hologram ends)   
T'KUVMA: No! They do not! The come to destroy our individuality. Shall we rise up together and give them the fight they deserve?   
KLINGONS: Remain Klingon!   
T'KUVMA: Fire!   
(The Klingon fleet opens fire.) 

[Bridge]

GEORGIOU: Battle stations.   
(A torpedo made a direct hit. Narwani is injured.)   
GEORGIOU: Ops, damage report.   
(Connor's console explodes.)   
GEORGIOU: Ensign Connor?   
WEETON: Transferring ops to this station, Captain.   
GANT: Direct hit. Hull breaches, decks 13 through 15. Emergency force fields in place, bulkheads holding.   
CREWMAN: Get her to sickbay.   
GANT: Secondary tactical off-line.   
GEORGIOU: Shields.   
SANU: At maximum, Captain, and holding for now.   
GEORGIOU: Helm, evasive manoeuvre seven alpha.   
(Both sides take damage.)   
GEORGIOU: Connor, can you make it to sickbay?   
CONNOR: Yes, Captain.   
SARU: The USS T'Plana-Hath is under heavy attack from three Klingon vessels.   
GEORGIOU: Detmer, make your heading 219 mark 6.   
DETMER: Aye, Captain.   
GEORGIOU: Mister Gant.   
GANT: Phasers armed and ready, Captain. Locking on target.   
GEORGIOU: Fire. 

[Brig]

BURNHAM: Computer, how badly have we been hit?   
COMPUTER: You have been confined to the brig. Query denied.   
BURNHAM: Who's there?   
CONNOR: Where are the medical officers?   
BURNHAM: Connor, what happened?   
CONNOR: The bridge was hit.   
BURNHAM: Who else was hurt? Is... is the Captain all right?   
CONNOR: She told me to go to sickbay. But this isn't sickbay. We're at war. You should be on the bridge.   
BURNHAM: I can't help. I'm locked up for mutiny.   
CONNOR: Why are we fighting? We're Starfleet. We're explorers, not soldiers.   
BURNHAM: Connor, you took a blow to the head. Activate that comm panel and call Doctor Nambue.   
CONNOR: Yes, I... I need help.   
(A direct hit blasts a hole in the brig hull, sucking Connor out into space. Burnham is knocked out but safe behind the security forcefield.)   
SAREK [memory]: Michael. Michael. Michael. My mind to your mind. My thoughts to your thoughts. Come back to me.   
COMPUTER: Major hull breach. Major hull breach. Deck one, deck three, deck six, deck seven, deck eight, deck nine. 

[Bridge]

GEORGIOU: Status.   
SANU: Additional hull breaches, decks one, three, and six through nine.   
GEORGIOU: The brig. 

[Brig]

COMPUTER: Shield at fifteen percent. Diverting main power from compromised decks to the bridge. Containment field failure is imminent. All repair personnel evacuate immediately.   
BURNHAM: Sarek? How is it possible? A mind-meld across a thousand light years?   
SAREK: More than a mind-meld. Ever since you were a child, ever since the bombing at the Learning Centre, that act of terror that forever changed your destiny, a part of me, my katra, has been with you. It also allows us this unique form of connection. I see by your imprisonment that my counsel concerning the Klingons did not yield the results you hoped for.   
BURNHAM: I couldn't convince Captain Georgiou to strike the Klingons first, so I took matters into my own hands. You're disappointed. As you should be.   
SAREK: I did not come here to judge your actions. I came because I sensed your your despair.   
BURNHAM: What's wrong?   
SAREK: Communicating with you in this manner. The physical cost is significant.   
BURNHAM: Then leave me. Please.   
SAREK: Do you think I came here just to say farewell? I would not put my well-being at risk for such sentimentality. The death and destruction raining down on Starfleet, that was to be expected. What I cannot abide is a waste of resources. You're gifted. You are brave. You must do better. Because I know you can.   
BURNHAM: You were never one to bolster my self-esteem.   
SAREK: Perhaps that is where I failed you. No matter your shame, gather your strength. Find a way to help those who need you. Live long and prosper. 

[Bridge]

GANT: Incoming warship on attack vector. They've locked on to us.   
GEORGIOU: Divert all power from nonessential systems to aft shields.   
(Direct hit to bridge. The Shenzou tumbles powerless towards the asteroid belt.)   
GEORGIOU: Ops.   
JANUZZI: Yes, Captain. Emergency forcefield is holding.   
SANU: But shields and impulse engines are off-line. We are completely disabled.   
DETMER: They're still coming. Right behind us, weapons hot. The Klingon warship peeled off. Why didn't they finish us?   
SARU: They don't need to. Captain, we're being sucked into the binary stars' debris ring. The gravitational field is pulling us in.   
GEORGIOU: Fire reverse thrusters.   
DETMER: They're not responding, Captain!   
SARU: Shields are still offline.   
GANT: We are bracing for impact.   
GEORGIOU: All hands, this is the Captain. Prepare to evacuate.   
(Sudden jolt. They are in a tractor beam from NCC1648 .)   
SARU: Incoming transmission from the Europa.   
JANUZZI: Systems are getting back on line.   
GEORGIOU: Thank you for the assist with that tractor beam, Admiral.   
ANDERSON [hologram]: What the hell happened, Philippa?   
GEORGIOU: We hailed, they fired. The Shenzhou, Clarke, and Yeager are down on our side. We've sustained heavy casualties.   
ANDERSON [hologram]: From the looks of it, so have they. Maybe they're ready to come to the table. Open a channel to the Klingon flagship. Attention, Klingon leader. I am Admiral Brett Anderson. 

[Klingon ship]

ANDERSON [hologram]: I speak with the authority of the entire Federation when I propose a cease-fire so that we might resolve this conflict with no further bloodshed.   
VOQ: Do you wish to respond, my lord? (nod) Begin transmission.   
T'KUVMA: Admiral, I am T'Kuvma. I am pleased you are here. We have been waiting for someone worthy of our attention. Your offer of a cease-fire is accepted.   
ANDERSON [hologram]: Good. Because if we're fighting, we're not talking.   
T'KUVMA: Prepare to receive my envoy.   
ANDERSON [hologram]: We'll get ready for your arrival. (hologram off)   
T'KUVMA: Lest anyone doubt that I can render my own vessels invisible. 

[Bridge]

ANDERSON [hologram]: Let's end this so we can get (staggers) What was that? (hologram and tractor beam off)   
SANU: The Europa has disengaged.   
GEORGIOU: What's going on?   
SANU: I can't explain it, Captain. There's an unknown energy source disrupting our scanners.   
GEORGIOU: Get me visuals.   
(The Europa crumples as an invisible wedge drives into it, then the ship uncloaks.)   
SARU: Captain, I'm detecting a voluntary antimatter containment breach on the Europa.   
GEORGIOU: They're going to self-destruct.   
SARU: Shields only 47 percent.   
(KaBOOM!) 

[Klingon ship]

T'KUVMA: We have suffered losses, but the Federation has suffered far more. Leaders, return to Qo'noS. Declare far and wide that the Klingon race fights as a united Empire once again.   
VOQ: Open your hearts to the one who delivered this great day. Follow the light. Follow T'Kuvma.   
L'RELL: T'Kuvma the Unforgettable!   
ALL: T'Kuvma the Unforgettable! 

[Bridge]

SARU: Captain, the Klingon vessels are warping out of the system.   
GEORGIOU: All but one.   
SARU: The Klingon flagship is hailing. They're broadcasting on all open subspace bands.   
T'KUVMA [on viewscreen]: Members of the Federation. What you call your most remote borders, I call too close to Klingon territory. You only live now to serve as witnesses of Klingon supremacy, to be my herald. We do not desire to know you, but you will know our great Houses, standing as one under Kahless, reborn in me, T'Kuvma! 

[Brig]

BURNHAM: Computer, implement steps of brig emergency evacuation protocol.   
COMPUTER: Denied. Ethical protocols state prisoner evacuation to occur in life-saving circumstances only.   
BURNHAM: This is a life-saving circumstance. I'm going to die in here unless you let me out.   
COMPUTER: Speculation. Request to engage ethical protocols denied.   
BURNHAM: How long before my cell's containment field fails?   
COMPUTER: Approximately eight minutes.   
BUNRHAM: At which point I will die. Confirm?   
COMPUTER: Confirmed.   
BURNHAM: Is the corridor outside the brig undamaged and still pressurised?   
COMPUTER: Affirmative.   
BUNRHAM: Then getting from my cell, through the blast door, and into the corridor ensures my survival.   
COMPUTER: Negative. Exposure to the vacuum of space for over fifteen seconds would result in respiratory distress, shock and suffocation before you are able to reach blast door.   
BURNHAM: But if you open a metre-sized hole in the containment field, the rapid depressurization will shoot me through to the blast door in less than six seconds.   
COMPUTER: Affirmative. But you will be unable to open the door in your inhibited physical state.   
BURNHAM: Then ethically you should open the door for me.   
COMPUTER: Working. Request confirmed. Ethical protocols engaged. Chance for survival estimated at 43 percent.   
BURNHAM: I'll take it.   
COMPUTER: Depressurisation commencing now.   
(Ice starts to form on Burnham's face as she whooshes across the void to the blast door.) 

[Ready room]

GEORGIOU: All warfare is based on deception. When you are able to attack, you must seem unable.   
SARU: Sun Tzu. I recognise the quote. But I fear we are deceiving no one. We are most definitely unable to attack.   
GEORGIOU: We have no weapons, no warp, no countermove at all. The Klingons have us. 

[Klingon ship]

L'RELL: The Federation ships are hiding, or scattered in pieces. They pose no threat.   
T'KUVMA: Then the fight is won.   
L'RELL: Yes. 

[Ready room]

SARU: We have photon torpedoes. Now, we can't fire them, but we can load the warheads onto a transport, one small enough to evade their primary sensors. Upon impact, we can deliver a kill shot directly into their hull.   
GEORGIOU: Devious, Saru. I approve. 

[Klingon ship]

T'KUVMA: And our dead?   
L'RELL: They float untethered on the battlefield, soon to be lost.   
T'KUVMA: Task everyone with retrieving them. I will prepare each of the slain for entombment with my own hands. 

[Ready room]

GEORGIOU: We'll use a worker bee to carry the torpedo. It's small enough to be mistaken for debris. Be ready in ten minutes.   
SARU: I will also run an analysis to determine blast sites for optimum damage.   
GEORGIOU: Make it hurt, Saru.   
SARU: Oh, there is one problem, Captain. Our worker bees have no autopilot, and our transporter can't penetrate their shields.   
GEORGIOU: We won't need it. I'll be driving.   
SARU: Captain, that's a suicide mission.   
GEORGIOU: Your priority is getting impulse engines back online so that you can get the Shenzhou out of here before I detonate the warheads. T'Kuvma lured Starfleet to a massacre. It's time I repaid him.   
BURNHAM: Captain, you can't do that.   
(Later, Saru has left.)   
BURNHAM: T'Kuvma has anointed himself the next Klingon messiah. If you kill him, you make him a martyr. Someone they can fight for endlessly. That might even be what he wants. But if you capture him, you make him a symbol of defeat, of shame. And if you take him as a prisoner of war, well, you give the Federation leverage to sue for peace.   
GEORGIOU: How could you have done this?   
BURNHAM: I believed it was the only way to avoid a full-scale war.   
GEORGIOU: When you first came aboard seven years ago, I worried your Vulcan training might some day trump your humanity. Do you know why Sarek asked me to take you on? I was a human who had seen a life of loss but still chose hope. What an ego I had thinking I could pick away the shell the Vulcans put around you. I was so sure I could do it. Even convinced that you were ready for the Captain's chair. To think I knew you so little.   
BURNHAM: You want to know how I turned on you? I believed saving you and the crew was more important than Starfleet's principles. Was it logical? Emotional? I don't know. Let me deliver the warheads in your place.   
(Multiple tractor beams lancing out from T'Kuvma's ship.)   
BURNHAM: They're gathering their dead.   
GEORGIOU: Saru, forget the worker bee.   
SARU [OC]: Captain?   
GEORGIOU: Spool up the transporters now, and have Engineering meet us there with a torpedo warhead. I know how we take him. 

[Transporter room]

(T'Kuvma places his bat'leth into a flame and sets it alight while Saru takes the warhead out of a torpedo.)   
T'KUVMA [OC]: A warrior who dies in his sleep is no more than flesh and bone.   
SARU: Tactical advises that they have coordinates on a slain Klingon officer.   
T'KUVMA [OC]: A warrior who perishes honourably in battle is blessed. A hero's demise brings pride for a life   
(Saru triggers the photon warhead.)   
T'KUVMA [OC]: given in defence of our race and comfort in the knowledge that new life awaits in Sto-Vo-Kor.   
(The warhead is beamed away to a warrior who is then snagged by a tractor beam.)   
T'KUVMA [OC]: Join your vaunted comrades, brothers and sisters, for you are not alone, and stand watch among the Black Fleet forever.   
(BOOM! and the narrow 'neck' of the Klingon ship breaks up.) 

[Bridge]

MAN: Sensors confirm loss of environment. 

[Transporter room]

SARU: No weapons activity on the Klingon ship. They're drifting. Their shields are down. I'll beam you to an area with minimal Klingon lifesigns.   
GEORGIOU: Let's go get our prisoner.   
(Georgiou and Burnham ready their phasers pistols.)   
GEORGIOU: Energise. 

[Klingon ship]

(They materialise and shoot two Klingons.)   
BURNHAM: This is the aft section of the bridge. T'Kuvma must be close.   
(Georgiou shoots another Klingon, then Voq jumps Burnham. Georgiou is distracted, and T'Kumva hits her. Voq is squeezing Burnham's head while she tries to elbow him in the ribs. She finally gets him off and hits him with a handy piece of metal pipe. Georgiou is using another pipe to ward off T'Kumva's bat'leth. She gets him to his knees, but he grabs her wrist and crushes it, then thrusts his blade through her heart. Burnham picks up Georgiou's phaser and shoots him.)   
SARU [OC]: Burnham, I've lost the captain's life sign. Burnham? Burnham?   
BURNHAM: Get us out of here now.   
SARU [OC]: I can't transport her without a lifesign.   
BURNHAM: I'm not leaving without her body. More Klingons are coming.   
SARU [OC]: Burnham, if she's deceased and you're in danger, I have no choice.   
BURNHAM: No!   
(Burnham cries on the transport platform. Voq cradles his dying lord.)   
VOQ: Your life will be remembered forever by all Klingons. Your death will be a cause to unite us all.   
T'KUVMA: Do you hear that?   
VOQ: No, my lord.   
T'KUVMA: The words we said as children in Kahless' honour. Whom do we seek?   
VOQ: Kahless.   
T'KUVMA: How do we find him?   
VOQ: Together.   
T'KUVMA: Give us light to see.   
VOQ: Forever.   
T'KUVMA: Will he hide from us always?   
VOQ: Never.   
(Escape pods flee the stricken Starfleet vessel.) 

[Court martial]

JUDGE: To the charge of dereliction of duty, to the charge of assaulting a fellow officer, to the charge of mutiny. To all these charges, how do you plead?   
BURNHAM: (sotto) Guilty.   
JUDGE: The accused cannot be heard.   
BURNHAM: Guilty on all counts.   
JUDGE: Is there anything you would like to say in your defence before a sentence is rendered?   
BURNHAM: From my youth on Vulcan, I was raised to believe that service was my purpose, and I carried that conviction to Starfleet. I dreamed of a day when I would command my own vessel and further the noble objectives of this great institution. That dream is over. The only ship I know in ruins, my crew gone. My captain, my friends, I wanted to protect them from war, from the enemy. And now we are at war, and I am the enemy.   
JUDGE: It is our ruling that the defendant, Commander Michael Burnham, be stripped of rank and hereby sentenced to imprisonment for life.   
---  
  
Star Trek ® is copyright of  CBS Studios Inc . Copyright (C) 1966, Present. The Star Trek web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.
